I was on a packed 2 train heading north, staring out the side windows. The subway tunnels are lined with all manner of lights in all colors- signal lights, maintainence lights, emergency lights, exit lights. They fly past the windows and I pretend I've entered warp speed.

So it was no surprise it took me a while to notice that the person sitting right in front of me (I was standing, facing the window which was above his head) had taken up a lively conversation with the people around him. Everyone was kind of in that dispassionate, brusque mood that conveyed the emotion of "I just want to go home, please don't be insane." Once we got past Times Square a great deal of the people on the train exited, and so the conversation narrowed down. Never denying a good opportunity to indulge a talker, I took out my headphones...

"So how old are you?" We started to talk about ourselves. He himself was an older black man, wearing an unzipped hoodie and t-shirt in addition to rather stylish pinstripe pants and dress shoes. He would embark on his points, and I would stare out the window and acknowledge them. His name was Harvey, and he was 39 years old.

"I think you're as old as you feel. Some of my friends, they tell me 'you can't do that, you're almost 40!' All I can say to them is, 'maybe you'll let that stop you.' I always ask people how they feel at any age- just before you talked to me I was talking to this older couple, who were so in love it was like they were on their first date. I think when people ask 'how it feels' to be a certain age, we're trying to get a sense for the arc of life."

"Do you remember when you were very young? Time seemed to move so slow you cared about fractions of a year, like it was some offense if someone said you were eight and you were really eight and a half. The older we get, the faster things seem to go. We love to get a sense for how things change over time- like I said, the arc of life."

"When I was talking to that older couple, they showed me that there is beauty at every age. We're all given one life, it's impossible to imagine how much beauty exists in even one life. That's what's important in living- you're 23 now? Let me tell you, your thirties are going to be just like your twenties, except you'll be at those places you worked hard to get to. At one point you need to remind yourself to look at what's beautiful in life, and acknowledge it. If you don't, you have to ask yourself what you're even living for."

"This other girl before you, she told me about how it feels to have a weekend off to just be lazy. Her friends told her, 'I'm sorry for you'- like it was a huge issue that she didn't have her weekends planned down to the hour with appointments and parties. I can't deny that your generation has it harder, too- when I graduated we were fine making $50k a year starting salary, so we could afford to slow down our lives. But your generation works so hard, and does so much just to keep up, that I can see the cost in every one of your eyes. Don't let the beauty in your life pass you by. There's always time for everything else."
